---
categories: compsci
date: 2025-09-02 15:33:00 -0300
title: it took me almost 20 commits and almost 20 years to get this website up
layout: post
tags:
  - code-learning
---
I don't code. It was always an interest of mine, but in a sort of abstract way that never really went anywhere. Last time I wrote an HTML file the web wasn't any of this, by the way; CSS was not a thing anyone used, JS wasn't even standardized, and my goal was a simple one: writing the perfect pet page for my favorite pet on neopets.com. Some user or another was taking applications to see who was gonna adopt a *cybunny* they were gonna get rid of, and it was gonna be me.

I don't expect you to understand what I'm talking about, but suffice to say, I did *not* get the bunny and my little HTML website was shredded in the popular vote. Coding was difficult, and I felt like I was too young for it.

Next time I tried it I was around 13, and I was obsessed with the idea of being a hacker. I learned what a compiler was, wrote my first *hello world* in C, and created a very, very, bad HTML "game" in which you played as a *hacker*, and talked to other *hackers* in a super secret *hacker* chat. I was super proud of that one. But coding was still hard. I was terrified of if statements and I did't find a way to get my bespoke HTML up on Blogger which was *super* unfair for my teenage self.

I let it go again.

But time passed. The web changed. Neopets got acquired by Scientology, then sold again. Facebook was born. Data collection changed everything. The internet became a desolate and numbing place to be, and the [first cases of people coming into physical hard because of LLMs advice are just showing up](https://www.acpjournals.org/doi/10.7326/aimcc.2024.1260?ref=404media.co). Things feel more and more plastic to me, nowadays. Being online isn't a weekend thing that I do when I want, anymore, it's the default. Real life is less visited than my computer. People started losing their minds, and everything feels like *shit*, to be frank.

So let me say that again, I don't code. But I grew up believing the web to be a beautiful place where people could connect, learn, exchange, cultivate themselves. I still believe it can be that, but if I keep delivering my brain to corporations on a silver platter that is never going to happen. I gave up social media first, but found out it wasn't enough. I still longed for a place to be, and so I decided that I would created one. I picked up coding again, started CS50, and realized that no ready-made blogging platform would give me what I wanted.

It all felt a little bit lost when I stumbled on [this blog](https://manuelmoreale.com), and emailed the creator about how nice it felt to see someone who still used the web as a place for authenticity. I think I wasn't expecting an answer—we're all so used to emotional distance that we don't expect real connection anymore—, but Manu was kind enough to write me back and encourage me to start a blog.

So this blog is the first project in my attempt to escape convenience and be less online. It took me a month to learn how to get it done, from learning what a static website generator was to understanding what in the *hell* GitHub is, to getting the theme installed and the pages working. A month ago I didn't know any of this. And today I do. Easy as that.

I am better for my struggles, for the difficulty, for the chance to use the gift millions of years of evolution has given me. Making this silly website work made me feel alive for the first time in ages, and now that I remember what it's like I'm not looking back. It's time to fully belong to myself again.

### What's next?

I'm on a ticking time bomb hosting this blog on GitHub. It's a *great* starter, sure, but it limits the website to 1gb of size, and even with the absolute majority of my stuff being text based, I will probably need image hosting at the very least, if not video (which I might be able to host on Vimeo, or even YouTube, for now). I can walk around it for a while, but not forever.

Not only that, but as my goal is to keep learning, keep expanding, and get out of the corporate web for good, it won't suffice for long. As I learn I will want to experiment more, I already do, so self-hosting some stuff is definitely in my future.