---
categories: compsci
date: 2025-09-20 10:41:00 -0300
title: the birth of piNAS
layout: post
tags:
  - code-learning
  - homelab
lang: eng
ref: naspi
---
I finally got a little case for my little Raspberry Pi, a monitor to be able to see things without, and a fucking unholy mess of cables—because I have no place to put any of that in the apartment I share with two other people. It's an abomination, but it looks cool, which is always a trap, and with this great (mediocre) power comes great responsibilities (too much courage). With a little fan attached to my boy and a LAN cable someone gave me I decided it was finally time to slap OpenMediaVault on this thing.

Because I had absolutely no clue what I was doing, I just followed [NetworkChuck's tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gyMpI8csWis). Not without hiccups. But it proves how nowadays you can do anything you want if you just got the Audacity. Fuck reality. Acquire the levels of confidence of a mediocre white dude.

Following this advice led me to struggle with the headless install of Raspibian and having to redo it five times, but still call it a glorious success when the sixth finally worked as intended. My computer kept generating a new key for SSH access on every install and it took me ages to find out how to delete them so I could actually log in. And then I was just dumb and didn't know that the address formula for remote access is systemName@IP. I just kept doing pi@IP thinking every RaspberryPi was accessed through "pi", for some fucking reason.

It was ridiculous, and took me hours to do a job that should've taken 5min, but persistence is key: if at first you don't succeed try and try again until someone on StackOverflow rejects the question you asked for being way too dumb. If they solve your problem, it doesn't matter. Your ego will survive.

It was the first time I have ever remotely accessed a system and the first thing I said was... *I'm in.*

Gotta say, all that money and effort? Worth it right there if nothing else worked.

OMV was a breeze to figure out after all of that, mostly because it's a very straight forward system, and because NetworkChuck does a great job explaining to you what to do. There was a tiny kerfuffle with the sharing protocol (turns out SMB on Mac is fine), but in the end I accessed everything easily and with no problems. I mounted a volume, did some research... and then my computer refused to upload files to the NAS, and I just rage quit.

By then I was working on this thing for two straight days and had no more fucks to give. My current guess is that I'll need to cable everything, which I should've done from the start anything, but I don't have another ethernet cable lying around. I didn't even have the first one to connect the NAS to the modem in the first place, it was given to me by a friend. It's been a few days since then, and I'll probably go back to it again as soon as I have my wits about me again and a cable to plug my laptop to the modem, but for now I'll just ride the success of having done this in the first place.

It does feels really fucking cool to work on something like this. Tiny me is absolutely rejoicing right now.