---
categories: filmmaking
date: 2026-02-27 15:11:00 -0300
title: hopelessness and media
layout: post
tags:
  - writing
lang: eng
ref: hopelessnessinmedia
---
Is despair killing creativity, or can fighting for creativity free us from it?

I've been asking myself this question for a while, ever since I realized haven't been wanting to watch movies anymore. Things have been boring as hell. Over-serious, grave. And not even grave in a good way, just. Hopeless, really. Very doom and gloom. Whatever happened to having fun? And whatever the *hell* happened to things feeling real? On the internet I see people talking about how there's no time to have fun. The world is ending. Economy is about to collapse. War is at our doorstep. How can you think about fun in a time like this. If you do, then *how dare you*? They diagnose you as naive at best, alienated at worse.

Well, let me tell you a story.

In 2020 I almost died. Not because of COVID. It was a lot stupider than that, in fact, more akin to a mistake. A decision made out of curiosity and naiveté that changed everything while changing absolutely nothing at the same time. No one else was involved. No crime was committed. It was entirely my own fault. I was just really fucking dumb and almost killed myself with questionable decisions. And when I said I almost died I'm not being hyperbolic, or philosophical—I'm being very, very, literal.

But what they don't tell you about almost dying, is that almost dying is the easy part. The hard part comes when you actually survive.

Because of the nature of what happened, I spent about two weeks convinced I had gone through horrifying things in my life that never happened, which is actually just called psychosis. Then once that was gone I'd have five panic attacks a day, wake up screaming because of nightmares I couldn't remember. I'd see patterns in the bathroom wall, smiling faces that looked like predators; that felt like pure, distilled, fear. I developed OCD symptoms, depression, and my new normal levels of anxiety made me scared of going to sleep, of waking up, and of opening my fridge. Physically, I was dealing with repetitive UTIs caused by stress, the kind that just doesn't go away. A course of antibiotics would end and relief wouldn't last for more than a couple days. Crying was just my default. I'd close my eyes and see things behind my eyelids. People. Places. They looked real. Like I could reach out and touch.

Nothing changed for six months, so I started therapy, and eventually saw a psychiatrist. It took me a bit more than two years to fully get my mind back, and up until mid 2025 I still had OCD symptoms that were generated by living in unthinkable levels of distress for too long. I take anxiety meds to this day.

I think it's safe to say I know a thing or two about despair. Not *too* much, mind you, my own foray into it was short and mild compared to what some people out there live with. But it was enough.

Three things saved me, back then: my support network, modern medicine, and having fun—which I still have no fucking clue how I even managed to do.

Let's be clear here, I was having a shit time, and it's impossible to live for more than the present moment when every time someone open a door your think they're there to kill you. But forced to be in this perpetual now, I learned to adapt to it, to live for what was there.

Because this was violence that I had imposed on myself, I had no one to blame. Nothing to distract me from the fact that I had fucked up and that these were the consequences. It's very hard to focus on your pain and look at it when you're suffering from someone else's actions (and for good reason), but if you're your only problem, then you have no choice. *I gave myself lemons*, and it took me a long time to realize that I wasn't going to find a jar of lemonade in the depths of a well of hatred. There wasn't a villain, here. I made an honest mistake out of curiosity, and that was that. Only once I looked *outside* of that mistake it started to hurt less. When I saw myself in a context where my pain wasn't defining of my whole experience as a human being on this earth.

I was living with my dad—I wasn't safe being on my own in that state—, who had a place near the ocean, so I used to take long walks at the beach to quell the anxiety. This one day I saw a bunch of teens jumping off the fisherman's wharf into the oceans. It was a gorgeous day, not too warm, but pleasant enough to be in the water. I started filming them as they played, and one of them spotted me and yelled that this was gonna be a good one, I should get it on camera, right before butchering a backflip and falling face first into the Atlantic. His bid for connection was enough to invite me into their moment and into that instinct of *joy* that makes everything feel so much more manageable. So when he emerged from the waves clutching his face, groaning and laughing, I laughed too.

I still have that shot. Those kids plunging into the sea and reminding me that it was a beautiful day. In New Years, I went to visit a side of my mom's family I didn't even know existed. It was a household of matriarchal inclinations, multigenerational and big. The gardens had fruit and vegetables and herbs, and someone rented a trampoline.

"Did someone have a kid I don't know about?" My aunt asked, pointing at it when we arrived through the gate, parking the car.

"Nope, that's for us." Her cousin said. A woman of fifty something.

Everyone played like children for days. At the end of my 20s, I was the youngest.

We stayed two weeks there. Me and my mom were assigned a mattress in the living room, and we couldn't sleep because someone had fallen asleep with the TV on. We tried asking softly though the door. Nothing. We knocked. Nothing. Then they started snoring, and that was decidedly louder than the television. We decided to drag the mattress through the rain into the only place in the house that was still available—the barbecue area on the other side of the property—in the middle of the night, bumping into cars and plants and each other, only to realize, when we got there, that while it *was* quiet, everything smelled of bacon.

I never laughed so hard in my life. My mind felt like someone took a cheese shredder to my brain, yes, but me and my mom were this close to bursting a spleen because we couldn't stop making bad jokes about how we'd wake up smelling like dinner.

My point is that... none of this cured me. None of this changed the fact that I needed to take medication to stop feeling like my soul was going to run away from my body at any given point. But it made it bearable. It made it worth it. It took me two years to be able to function like a human being again, and I wouldn't even have made it through the first week of SSRIs without my mom telling me jokes about her own anxiety and experience with medication. Without my friend's laughing at my face when I told them I was stupid and almost died. Without people around me reminding me that this shit show was just one act in the overall festival of colors that was life.

It was that *joy* that I found in the roughest moment of my life that kept me going through it. It wasn't seeing a light at the end of a tunnel, it was someone throwing a party in the dark.

Much of that joy was also found in art. In between pulling myself out of one panic attack and the next I watched amazing movies, I saw paintings and listened to music and read books. None of the things that helped me were about how bad the world is, I knew that intimately at that moment, I was *experiencing* how bad it could get. Instead they were about the gold in the shadow. The beauty in that weird contrast. 

There is a place for recognizing that things are not okay, and we need that art, too. We need it because we need to announce it, to *denounce* it, and we need it because sometimes we just need someone else to point and say "yeah this is fucked", so we don't feel like we're alone in it or insane for being the only ones seeing it. Recognizing the pain is a part of the healing process. But, christ, sometimes we also just need to not look at it for a while. It's not about alienation. It's about reminding ourselves that there's something out there worth wading through the shit for. It's rest. It's what we're here for.

I wrote about [starting to find my path outside of expectations](https://aeriellz.github.io/filmmaking/2026/02/03/fulbright-and-thoughts.html), and I think whatever that path is, this joy has a lot to do with it. This specific type of hope. Not the absence of pain and suffering, but a push back; a a form of taking back the space that despair robs us off.

Right now, things are pretty difficult in a lot of places. A lot of darkness hovers, and I wish more people were doing that. Lighting a candle, instead of pointing out the busted lamps.